My name is David O'Rourke.
I'm the engineering
manager of Open Directory.
I have to get my little cue here.
How many people were at
last year's presentation?
Could you raise your hand?
How many people actually had a
seat at last year's presentation?
Very few.
So they moved us to a bigger room.
So I want to thank you all for
overflowing last year's presentation.
Next year I'm going to go
for the pool in the open bar.
How does that sound?
David O' Okay.
Also, I'd like you to all go out in
the hallway and get a friend.
I'd like to pack this room so
we get in the big one upstairs.
No.
Okay.
I think I would actually be
scared of that many people.
My name's David O'Rourke.
We're here to talk about Open Directory,
what it is, what is Directory Services.
We're going to review
Directory Services for 10.2 for
those of you who are new this year.
We're going to talk about our
future plans for Panther and
then we're going to go into Q&A.
So, I guess now is as good a
time as any to get into it.
So, first of all,
Open Direct - last year we introduced
the Open Directory technology name.
And what Open Directory is,
is a technology umbrella,
kind of like QuickTime.
It covers a lot of
different technologies.
In our case, it covers the client access
technology and also covers any
servers that we deliver as part
of the Panther Server product.
Apple's strategy in the
Open Directory space is to adopt
and promote industry standard
technologies such as LDAP,
Kerberos, Sassl,
whatever directory related
technology fits our purpose.
We're going to adopt it, embrace it,
and promote it on our platforms.
So, Open Directory is built
into both Mac OS X desktop
and the client's built in,
and it's built into Mac OS X server.
If you buy Mac OS X server and
turn on a directory server,
you get Open Directory.
It's been there since 10.0.
And the good news is,
is everything we do is open
source as part of Darwin.
So, no secrets.
You can review our implementation,
see if it meets your needs,
see if we're sometimes passing a
password on the wire in the clear.
But we try to fix bugs like that,
and you can see it in our source code.
The directory service history,
we started out with Mac OS X 10.0
having NetInfo and LDAPv2 as a client.
We then, in 10.1, introduced...
: We introduced a desktop
server with LDAPv2 support.
In 10.2, we introduced NetInfo, LDAPv2,
LDAPv3.
We added NIS and flat file
support or Yellow Pages.
Is NIS the proper name these
days or is it Yellow Pages?
NIS, thank you.
We also introduced service discovery
based on directory services.
So we have an AppleTalk plugin
for browsing AppleTalk networks.
We have an SLP plugin.
We have a rendezvous plugin and we have
a plugin for browsing Windows networks.
So if you see a Windows server
when you go to connect a server in
Jaguar or slash network on Panther,
you're using directory services.
Panther's even better.
It has all the features of 10.2 and
we're going to go over some of the
new and exciting features right now.
First I want to talk about
what Directory Services is.
This is the client access
portion of the product.
It's a standard box diagram.
Engineers like to draw boxes.
I'm an engineer so I drew some boxes.
We've got Mac OS X software running
on top of an abstraction API.
We've got the abstraction API there
in the middle in the blue box.
Is it blue on your screen?
Yes it is.
At the bottom layer we have plugins.
We have a plugin for NetInfo,
we have a plugin for LDAP,
we now have a plugin
for Active Directory,
we have a plugin for BSD files,
and you as a third party
can develop your own plugin.
I believe we're still working
with somebody to develop an
Oracle plugin so that their directory
system can be an Oracle database.
Directory services in 10.2 included
an LDAPv3 read/write plugin,
an LDAPv2 read-only plugin.
It included NetInfo.
It includes NIS, BSD/SE files.
It includes service discovery.
The APIs are documented and
the plugin APIs are documented.
We have an SDK.
It includes sample code.
We have sample plugins.
We have a stub plugin that you
could adopt and put your code in.
Or you could start with our own
productized LDAPv3 plugin and gut
it and use it for your own purposes.
And the directory services
headers are installed in
system/library/frameworks/directory-s
ervices/framework.
How does 10.2 use Directory Services?
This is a question
we're kind of plumbing.
If we're doing our job right,
you don't even notice that
Directory Services is working.
My management keeps asking me to demo it,
and I say, "Did you make it past login
window?" And they say,
"Yes." I said, "That's the demo." It's
a really boring demo,
but if we're doing our jobs right,
you don't really see
Directory Services because we're
just feeding config information
to the system behind the scenes.
But Managed Desktop.
How many of you use Managed Desktop?
Managed Desktop sources all of its
information out of Directory Services,
so that's one key consumer of the data.
All the security
framework authentication,
whenever that dialog comes up
and asks you to type a password,
they ultimately call
Directory Services to
verify that password.
And all the legacy tools
have been migrated to PAM,
so if you have PassWD or some
password authenticating tool
that's running on the command line,
it calls a PAM module,
and that PAM module calls either
Security Framework or Directory Services,
and that authenticates
your legacy UNIX tools.
And all the Mac OS X Server processes.
Server processes and administration
tools use directory services.
Connect to Server,
Command-K in the Finder
brings up Connect to Server.
Everything on the left,
all those zones and everything,
those are all coming from
either an Apple Talk,
SLP, or Rendezvous plugin when
you click on the zones.
So all the service discovery in Mac OS X,
slash network,
how many of you have played with
the new slash networking feature in
Panther that allows you to browse?
That's now all sourcing the same
information that what we call NSL,
or Connect to Server,
was sourcing in 10.2.
And you can use directory access as
a system administrator to turn off
the browsing of certain protocols.
So if you don't want your
customers ever connecting to your
Apple servers over Apple Talk,
you can turn off their browsing
by going to directory access,
turn off the Apple Talk browsing plugin,
and then Apple Talk zones will no
longer show up and connect to server.
That does not turn off
the Apple Talk protocol,
it just turns off the browsing portion.
Another way Mac OS X-2 uses
directory services - this
is an architecture diagram.
Next came to us with Next Step and
they had already hooked a lot of the
BSD routines to extract their directory
access through a process called LookupD.
And so the system is really - the
system is a bit schizophrenic.
There's the legacy APIs that access
directory data and there's the new
APIs that access directory data.
The way we make both systems
regardless of which API get the same
data is anything that calls LookupD,
we have a plugin in LookupD that shunts
the request over to directory services.
Anybody that's calling
directory services,
they of course get what
directory services is configured.
So this means when you configure
directory access and add an
LDAP plugin to your search node,
you're also configuring what the entire
system sees on the command line side.
How it resolves users,
how it resolves groups.
So this is the real power of the system.
So even though there's
two different APIs,
they all work together.
Even though there's two different APIs,
they always return the same set
of data because they're linked.
Mac OS X/2 Server includes two choices.
This is Jaguar Server.
I want to emphasize that
we're going over history,
so not the future.
X/2 Server included two
choices for a directory server.
You could deploy NetInfo,
which was always supported.
That supports Mac OS 10.1 and 10.2.
We added, for the first time,
an LDAP v3 plugin,
but it uses the NetInfo
database for its backend.
So when you create a
record through NetInfo,
it also showed up on the LDAP side.
Luke Howard did that
work for us from Paddle.
He's in the audience today.
I'd like to thank him for that.
It's really kind of cool because you can
source your data from one database and
serve it up over the NetInfo protocol,
serve it up over LDAP.
It supports the Mac OS X/2 clients.
And we introduced the
Open Directory password server,
which is the SASSL-based network
authentication for legacy
authentication protocols.
I highly recommend that you go
back in time and go to yesterday's
auth session because we talked in
detail about the password server.
You can go back in time.
I believe we have these
sessions available on DVD later.
Is that correct?
Can anyone confirm that?
So if you didn't catch the auth
session and want more details,
work with Apple Developer Relations to
get this year's presentation.
So on 10.2 we made a lot of
progress in the directory space.
We added NL.v3 server,
we added service discovery,
and we introduced new authentication
methods with the password server and the
authentication authority and that's all
the product that we're all using today.
What I want to talk about now
is what we're planning to do for
directory services this year.
And so we're going to move into
directory services for Panther.
The first thing we're doing
is we're substantially
enhancing the LDAPv3 plugin.
I'll get into the details of that.
We're substantially enhancing the
Open Directory password server.
We combined the NIS and flat file plugin.
In Jaguar they were two separate plugins.
What we've done in Panther is
we've combined them into the
same source set and just taught
them to share information.
We're getting rid of the LDAPv2 plugin.
We're enhancing support for
Active Directory and we're making
changes to local authentication.
In addition, we're enhancing the
SMB Windows Network plugin.
We can now browse off of a local subnet.
Slash network is now based on NSL,
which was the Mac OS 9 network
service location protocol
slash directory services.
We've added man pages for directory
services and we're going to be
demoing some new command line
tools later in this presentation.
And we've made some minor
changes for plugin developers.
So if you're developing a plugin,
there's some gotchas and some heads up
that we need to keep you informed of.
LDAP v3 client enhancements.
This is the meat of the work
we're doing for Panther.
In 10.2,
LDAP v3 was already very robust and could
talk to a lot of different LDAP servers.
We supported DHCP LDAP discovery
through option 95.
We supported storing our configurations
or our mappings on the LDAP server
itself so you didn't have to visit
each machine to reconfigure it.
We integrated support for the
Open Directory password server so that
LDAP would use the password server
when the authentication authority
and the user record told us to.
So what we're doing for
- For v3 and Panthers,
we're adding replication support.
So you can deploy multiple LDAP servers
and our v3 plugin will fail over.
There will be client side
awareness of LDAP replicas and
if you're using the DS APIs,
the failover is completely transparent
to you so you don't have to do anything.
You just call Open Directory,
say "Open DuraNode,
I want to talk to an LDAP server."
That LDAP server goes away,
we have to find a replica,
your code keeps churning along,
it doesn't even know that we've
switched network connections.
LDAP V3 client replica
picking is quite thorough.
We'll automatically detect
and use LDAP replicas.
We will use any or all of three
replica discovery mechanisms.
There's an existing standard
for LDAP called Alt Servers,
which is stored in the
root of the LDAP server.
If we find that information,
we will use the LDAP replicas that
are stored in that information.
We are adding a new record
to the LDAP system that we
call a configuration record.
That configuration record is no
harder than a list of IP addresses.
It has to be well named.
There will be documentation
and server admin.
But if that configuration is found and
lists IP addresses for us to contact,
we will use that record.
So you can actually put the
replication table in the
LDAP server and we'll use it.
And there is an LDAP replication
scheme for DNS service records.
So if you've configured DNS to
list multiple LDAP servers,
we'll use DNS service records.
All of these methods require
LDAP server connectivity at least once.
We can't come up.
So if you call us an IP address as
the LDAP server that you want us to
talk to and that isn't even reachable,
we can't discover the replicas.
So we require connectivity to the
LDAP server at least once to harvest
all of these sources of information.
But after that,
you can move the LDAP servers
around willy-nilly.
And as long as one is
still up and running,
we'll contact it and learn
about the new information.
We put the failover support in the
client because now Mac OS X server
LDAP supports replication.
And clearly we're going to
work with that very well.
So now that we have a
replicated LDAP server,
we needed a replication.
We needed a replication-aware client,
and we've done that in Panther.
Replica failover resolution
is done in parallel.
We will not serially try 20 LDAP servers
at two minutes a shot and make the user
wait 40 minutes to find the replica.
We try to do the discovery in parallel.
We also try to do it in such a
manner that we don't spam the
network on every single open attempt.
We try to gradually build.
We get more and more aggressive over time
when the LDAP servers are nonresponsive.
So we won't bring up unnecessary
network connections if the LDAP server
is just a little slow to respond.
But if it's too slow to respond,
we'll start looking for replicas and
that will cause more networking traffic.
We've also enhanced the password server.
New authentication methods - we
have some authentication methods
to support the new VPN server,
and we support PDC authentication.
The PDC needs certain
authentication methods to be able
to authenticate Windows clients,
so we've had to add authentication
methods to the password
server to support that.
We've added new password policies.
We have global and per user policies.
I went over these in detail
in the authentication session.
And we have secure replication.
We have true multi-master replication.
Every single password server replica
can accept a password change.
We have client-side failover,
so if one password
server stops responding,
we use other password servers.
There are more details in session 607,
which was yesterday's session.
But it is secure,
and it is multi-master replication.
Here's a screenshot of
the global policies.
This is a new HI for Panther,
so we support a number of policies.
I won't go into them in detail right now,
but I'll leave it up there
just for a bit so you can look
for your favorite feature.
I have heard dictionary
is not here though,
so everybody wants dictionary and
we're going to look into that.
The authentication methods that the
password server supports are MD5 digest,
which is used by default.
If you don't specify an
authentication method,
this is what login window uses.
And if any DS API client requests
clear text authentication,
we actually turn around and do an
MD5 authentication behind the scenes.
Kram MD5 is typically
used by IMAP and SMTP.
We have NT and LAN Manager that's
used by SMB file sharing.
We support APOP,
which is used by the POP3 mail protocol.
We support WebDAV Digest
for WebDAV Apache modules.
The new authentication method
we've added is MSCHAP2,
and that supports the VPN technologies.
We are retiring two-way random
in the Panther timeframe.
Jaguar supports it, Panther won't.
No.
Not a lot of AFP clients
are still using it.
If you are still running on an
AFP client that requires two-way random,
I think we have AFP clients that are
qualified all the way back to 8.1.
Leland?
Yes.
8.1 that do DHX,
which is the last authentication
method that we support.
So all the way back to Mac OS 8,
you have an AFP client that
doesn't need to a random,
so we're getting rid of that.
The authentication authority matrix.
The authentication authority
was introduced in Jaguar.
It's an attribute in the user record
that indicates to Jaguar how the
user record should be authenticated
if an authentication is attempted.
We had several values.
We had basic last year,
and that basically indicates
the user's crypt-based.
We introduced the Apple password
server authentication authority.
This indicates that the
user's password server based,
and in that authority is all the
information we need to know to contact
the password server and verify that user.
This year we're introducing ShadowHash.
Local users no longer have a
readable crypt password on Panther.
For those of you who go rummaging around
with niDump on your Panther machine
looking for your crypt password,
it isn't there anymore.
So ShadowHash is indicated.
ShadowHash indicates that this
user record is ShadowHash based
instead of local crypt based.
And we're introducing the
Kerberos auth authority.
How many people haven't heard we're
making a big push around Kerberos?
Okay.
So we're going to indicate that
users are Kerberos based by actually
putting a Kerberos authentication
authority in the user record.
And that helps us know that we should
attempt to do Kerberos authentication.
So local authentication changes.
Crypt is dead.
The default local authentication
is stored in a shadow
file for all local users.
Crypt is still supported,
but none of the Mac OS X tools
will create a crypt user.
If you want to do it yourself
through DS APIs or legacy tools,
it still works.
It will still function.
The OS will still verify
the user's password,
but none of our administration
tools will create a crypt user.
Um, your application should not
be relying on crypt passwords.
Um, Panther will break any application
that has not adopted security framework
directory services or PAM or some other
password verification abstraction API.
This is not a bug in
the operating system.
In order to make the OS more
secure and move forward,
we have to break this.
So if you have an application that
is doing authentication and you're
calling getPWNAM or some other API that
returns a crypt password and you're
relying on that to behave in Panther,
it will break.
And we're not going to fix it
because it's a security problem.
So we need you to adopt a
password verification abstraction.
There are three major
abstractions you can adopt.
You can adopt PAM,
which is a cross-platform,
pluggable authentication
method for Linux.
You can adopt the security
framework to do your password
verification in your application.
If you need to do authentication,
you should probably be seriously looking
at the authorization framework because
that's probably the more appropriate
way for a GUI application to go forward.
Or you can use the down-and-dirty
directory service API and do
the authentication yourself.
I want to emphasize,
if your application is not
using one of these APIs,
it will break when running on Panther.
You will not be able to
authenticate your user records.
This is if you're a server,
a client process, whatever.
And just for emphasis and with color...
So, we've gotten rid of Crypt.
Sorry about breaking your app,
but it's a necessary evil.
So here's a quick timeline of
password server histories and future.
We had Crypt in 10.0.
We supported Crypt and LDAP/Bind in 10.1.
We support Crypt, LDAP/Bind, Kerberos,
the DS APIs, password server PAM and
security framework in 10.2.
We've gotten rid of
Crypt support in Panther.
We now support LDAP/Bind, Kerberos,
DS API, password server PAM and
security framework.
And moving out into the future,
Kerberos is going to - its font is
going to get bigger and it's going
to get a more impressive color.
So, authentication long-term.
Apple's investing heavily in Kerberos.
This means if we're investing
heavily in Kerberos,
so should you,
either as a customer or as a developer.
We are aggressively,
aggressively migrating all of our
networking products to be Kerberos-based.
If there's a favorite protocol of
yours that does authentication,
and we ship a client
and we ship a server,
we're probably going to Kerberize it.
We will ship the MIT KDC.
We already shipped the
MIT Kerberos client,
and sessions 607 and 108 are must-attends
for any network service people.
108 is the Kerberos session done
by Marshall Vail and his team.
All Kerberos, all the time,
is in Apple's future and yours.
So, get used to it.
Plan for next year's presentation.
We combine the NIS and flat file plugin.
Mac OS 10.2.5 added an NIS plugin.
Mac OS 10.2 supports /etc/config files.
Panther's implementation
combines the NIS flat file
support into a single code base.
And now there's a
unified configuration HI.
So it's really easy to configure this.
This is the configuration HI.
The BSD local doesn't require
any configuration because we know
where all the local files are.
So that's just kind of
there for documentation.
And then the lower half of the
configuration sheet is the domain
name of your NIS server or list
of alternative NIS servers.
And if you go to directory access,
click on the NIS plugin.
This is the configuration
HI you're going to see.
LDAPv2 is being retired.
The LDAPv3 plugin has
all the LDAPv2 features.
LDAPv3 is more robust
and has more features.
LDAPv2 configurations will
automatically be migrated when you
upgrade to Panther for the first time.
But - and so we're working to
make that transition seamless.
But there's no reason for
customers to continue to use v2.
So you could move to
LDAPv3 today on Jaguar.
You don't need to continue using v2.
So you can move ahead of us or you
can wait for Panther to migrate
your configuration file for you.
But either way,
the LDAPv2 plugin is going away.
We are providing an
Active Directory plugin.
This plugin is a native
client of LDAP and Kerberos.
We're holding Microsoft to their word
that Active Directory is nothing more
than an LDAP and Kerberos server.
So we're holding them to that and we use
nothing but Open LDAP and the Kerberos
APIs to interact with Active Directory.
We don't use any proprietary RPCs.
No schema modifications are
required to use this plugin.
The plugin generates any
missing Mac OS X attributes.
So we generate UIDs,
we generate home locs,
we generate all the missing
Mac OS X attributes.
We can't generate managed desktop data.
I can't fabricate doc
preferences out of thin air.
So really this is a baseline level of
compatibility with Active Directory.
If you just want users
to be able to log on,
get their name and password
and stuff like that,
the AD plugin is an excellent thing.
If you want to actually use some
of the unique features of Mac OS X,
you have to modify the AD schema
and add the information we need.
But that's above and beyond
the baseline feature set.
So the Active Directory plugin
supports all the AD features,
supports the baseline AD schema,
and still supports our extensions
if they're present so that
we can get additional feature
set out of the AD plugin.
It supports domain controllers,
authentication policies, replication.
All the features are there.
Eric Clements has done
the AD plugin for us.
He's done a fantastic job.
And we look forward to your
feedback on the product.
If Mac OS X data schema is present,
this AD plugin will
work with that as well.
This is the configuration.
I don't think we could
have made it much simpler.
You don't need the advanced
options most of the time.
You enter the forest, the domain,
you enter a computer ID, you hit bind.
We create a computer
record in the AD system.
We use that computer record to bind
to the Active Directory system.
You then go to directory access and
add the AD plugin to the search policy.
You log out to logon window and
you can log on as an AD user.
That's it.
We do automatic
multi-domain authentication.
You can force us to use
a particular server.
You can force us to use a unique
ID attribute that's present.
You can cache the last user
login for network disconnect.
So when your users go home and they
aren't connected to an AD system,
they can still log on to their
PowerBook with the same name and password
they use for their network accounts.
This feature...
will be covered more at the mobile
managed desktop session later today and
is for any directory services plugin.
So if you have an LDAP user,
if you have a crypt user
or you have an NIS user,
we now support offline caching of
local - of network user records.
And you can set up a number of groups
for the AD plugin to administer -
which AD user should be considered
local administrators on this system.
So, we have service discovery in Panther.
We still have AppleTalk,
we still have SLP,
we still have Rendezvous,
and we still have SMB.
We have rewritten the
SMB plugin from scratch.
It has the same functionality as Jaguar,
but we can now browse off of subnets.
That's the major feature.
We still have Rendezvous, AppleTalk,
and SLP.
SLP will be retired in
a future OS release.
I don't know when, maybe next year,
maybe the year after.
It will at least be made an
optional install in a future OS.
So, if you have any applications
that are relying on SLP,
I highly encourage you to move
on to Rendezvous because Apple's
going to start deprecating this
service over the next few years.
We have some command
line tools and man pages.
We now have man pages
for directory services.
We have a suite of tools
We have DSCL, which stands for
Directory Services Command Line.
We have the PW Policy tool,
which lets you, from the command line,
set password policies
on the password server.
PassWD now uses directory services.
We have DSPerfMonitor
and we have DSError,
which will convert the numeric
error codes to a display string.
We have API profiling.
We're going to demo that later.
And we have server tools and
Work Group Manager now includes a
new feature called the Inspector.
How many of you are used to ResEdit?
Remember ResEdit from Mac OS 9 days?
Inspector is ResEdit
for directory services.
It's a raw editor.
You can really shoot
yourself in the foot.
If you want to have a really good time,
I really recommend you
go into the Inspector,
you mess with your home loc,
you change the user's auth authority,
and paste in a random string
into the grip password.
You'll just have a great time with that.
So the Inspector is a new feature
and we think it's quite useful.
We already use it internally
to debug our GUIs.
So what I'd like to do at this time
is invite my coworker Jason Townsend
up on stage and he's going to
give you some really cool demos.
Thank you.
Thanks, Dave.
So I'd like to go over to demo machine
number two and show you some of the
stuff that we've added in Panther.
Can we switch to demo two?
All right,
and I'm going to be looking at what
we've done from the command line side.
You heard Dave mention that we've
added some new command line tools.
One of those is called DSCL.
And if any of you are
familiar with NetInfo,
you may have used Nickel before.
DSCL is kind of like Nickel,
except that it uses directory services.
So I can just say DSCL.
Local Hosts,
and I have an interactive prompt
that I can use to do a wide variety
of directory service operations.
So at the top level I can see
all the plugins that I have.
For example,
I can go to NetInfo for the local domain,
and I can see various
record types are there.
Let's take a look at my users.
Another thing is we have
tab completion in here,
which Nickel doesn't have,
so any of you who use
this will appreciate that.
And I'll go ahead and look
at the user I'm logged in as.
I can just read that record.
And you'll notice where the
password attribute used to be,
there's just eight stars.
And we have the shadow
hash auth authority.
So there is no readable CRIT password.
All right, so, and I can use,
in addition to reading data with the SCL,
I can also make changes.
So, for example,
I could change my authentication hint.
I could say,
Change that to the usual.
And oh, okay,
I forgot to authenticate first.
So you can also authenticate
as your administrator.
And then I have history as well,
so I can replay those commands.
And now if I reread that record,
you can see that I've changed
the authentication hint.
So we've also got a man page for DSCL.
It talks about all the things you can do.
And there's a lot of stuff there.
We've also added the man
page for directory service.
So we should have, you know,
any of the command line tools that we've
got there are going to be going to have
man pages you can look at on the system
to figure out what you can do with them.
Another feature I'd like to show
you is called the DS API logging.
This is something that
we had in Mac OS X too,
but we've made it a little
bit better in Panther.
And if you haven't used it
before and you're doing any
work with Directory Services,
either developing a plugin or writing
an app that's using Directory Services,
you're definitely going
to want to check this out.
So as root, I can do a kill all user
two on Directory Service.
And that's just going to send a user to
signal that will turn on the API logging.
And then, for example,
I could go ahead and
bring up directory access.
That'll cause some directory
service calls to happen.
And if I go look in console,
I've got my system log up here.
I can see a whole bunch of calls
coming through from directory access.
There's actually a really
cool feature in console.
If you haven't seen this,
this is really awesome.
filter
based on any string,
and it will show you only
the lines that match that.
So I can't take credit for that,
but I use that thing every day.
So you can filter to just the app,
and we're showing also the app name here.
If you've used this feature before,
we used to show the PID,
which we still show,
but now you can get an idea of, well,
which client is coming in talking
to directory service without
having to go look at top or figure
those things out on your own.
So that's API logging.
Another thing that we've added in
Panther is called DSPerfMonitor,
and what that does is it allows you to...
[Transcript missing]
: So, I'm going to go ahead and
do a DSCL command there.
That'll just run one
command and then complete,
and that actually is doing a
get-dir-node-info on my local
domain and showing me the auth
methods I have and that it's
read-write and that sort of thing.
So now, if I go back, do dsperfmonitor-d,
then it will dump the API statistics
into var log system log,
and let's see, I can go ahead and turn
off my filter here,
and you'll see a bunch of tab-delimited
data here at the bottom that we could
go ahead and bring in to Excel or
whatever spreadsheet you want to
put it into and take a look at it.
All right,
so I'd like to go back to the slides now.
Okay,
so there's some other changes I want
to tell you about if you're doing
any plugin development or if you're
using the Directory Service API.
There's lazy plugin loading.
We've added some new standard
record and attribute types
you want to take a look at.
There's also support for
plugins in directory access,
and I'll get into that a little later.
and I'll also tell you an update
about our open source code.
So lazy plugin loading.
This is a feature that
we've added in Panther,
and the main goal here is to improve
the boot time and reduce the memory
footprint of directory service.
And the way we do this is we only
load the plugins that we need.
So for backward compatibility,
this is an opt-in.
[Transcript missing]
So there's two keys you'll want to
add to your plugin's Info.plist.
The first one is DSOK to load lazily.
And that's going to tell us, yes,
this plugin wants to
opt in for lazy loading.
The other one is an optional one,
which is called DSNodesToRegister.
And that allows you to specify a list
of nodes that Directory Service will
register for you without
you actually even running.
So I have an example of
that on the next slide here.
This is from the combined
BSD flat file and NIS plugin.
It registers /bsd/local.
You can see there.
So that's this array of
dictionaries going on there.
And the DSOK to load
lazily is at the bottom.
So there's some API additions.
The first one,
hopefully you'll be excited about,
is we have an umbrella header.
So anyone who's ever programmed
with Directory Service,
before you had to include probably four
different header files to do anything,
and it was a little confusing and
the names were hard to remember.
So now you just include
DirectoryService/DirectoryService.h
and everything works if
you're developing on Panther.
We've added some new standard
record and attribute types.
There's a few examples there.
There's a lot more,
but you can check out the header
files on your Panther developer tools.
For example, we have people,
which is for contact information.
This is if you want to have
that contact information but
not attach it to a user record.
We also have a record for
the auto server setup.
Maybe you've seen the demos of automatic
server setup on Mac OS X Server.
We store those in auto
server setup records.
We've also added keywords and XML plist
is one we use in the auto server setup.
We've added one new API call,
which is DSDUDERNODEAUTH on record type.
This is pretty much the same
thing as a DUDERNODEAUTH,
except you specify which record type.
So that lets you work with
records other than users.
And the main thing we do this with
now is the computer records when you
have a PDC set up that uses this API.
So, directory access plugins.
We actually had support for directory
access plugins beginning in 10.2.
And for those of you
that aren't familiar,
directory access is the tool that
you use to configure Open Directory,
which is an application's utilities.
This allows you to provide a
custom interface when someone
clicks on the configure button
for your open directory plugin.
And we actually use this system
for all of the UI that you see
in directory access for LDAP v3,
NIS, Active Directory.
All of those have plugins
in directory access.
We're going to be documenting that in an
update to our developer documentation.
And if you want to do this,
essentially what you need to do is
factor your configuration so that all of
the UI is going to be in your directory
access plugin and the back end of it will
be in your directory services plugin.
So you'll use the directory
services API to actually make
your configuration changes.
Normally this is done by doing plugin
custom calls and packing up your
configuration in the DS buffer as
an XML plist or something like that.
So why do we suggest that you do that?
It's because directory
access is a remote tool.
It can actually be used, for example,
to connect from a PowerBook to a
headless XServe over the DS proxy.
So if you go to the server
menu in directory access,
you can connect to whatever server
machine you want and configure it.
So the only way for you to get from
the machine running directory access
to the appropriate place to put those
config files is using the API because
we have a reference for you that allows
you to use that remote connection.
You need to keep in mind because of this
that there may be different versions
on both sides of that connection,
and we actually support
Panther connecting to Jaguar.
So we actually keep around
some of our old plugins,
for example, LDAPv2.
Even though the directory
service plugin is gone,
there's still a directory
access plugin for that,
so you can continue to configure that.
If you want to work on a directory access
plugin or directory service plugin,
let us know.
It should be pretty easy to do
the stuff in directory access.
It's all using Objective-C and there's
only a few methods you need to implement.
[Transcript missing]
So we've done a lot for Panther.
We've enhanced the LDAPv3 plugin.
We've enhanced password server
support with auth methods
and replication support.
We have a combined NIS and flat file
plugin for those of you who have
legacy UNIX configuration information.
LDAPv2 is being retired.
We have a brand new plugin for
supporting Active Directory that
doesn't require any schema changes.
And we've made changes
to local authentication.
Kerberos is dead and
Kerb - or Crypt is dead.
And Kerberos is coming.
We've enhanced the
SMB Windows Network plugin.
Slash Network is now based
on Directory Services.
Directory Services has man pages,
it has a command line tool suite,
and there are some very,
very minor changes if
you're developing a plugin,
but there's only a handful of
people developing a plugin,
so this doesn't affect a lot of people.
Here's a roadmap of some
interesting sessions.
We have the security session, Kerberos,
Mac OS X Server overview,
server in depth, authentication,
desktop technologies,
and network security
best practices on Friday.
I'll be here all week.
I'll be at that presentation.
You can contact myself or Skip Levens
or Jason Townsen if you want,
but our email addresses are up there.
And for more information,
there's a lot of documentation.
We have the
Directory Services API documentation
posted at the site,
although I've heard these -
I heard we renamed all these
URLs and I didn't get them updated,
so go to the developer website
and we're under networking,
wherever they've moved that to.
We have Darwin Open Directory.
We have the Open Directory S/4HANA.
The server documentation, surprisingly,
is very good, and in particular,
the Open Directory Technical Brief.
Now, that's a fantastic
tutorial on directories,
just in general, conceptually,
high-level stuff.
I really recommend anyone
doing directory work read that.
The Mac OS X LDAP schema.
Everyone last year said,
"Where do you document
the LDAP schema?" Well,
it's in the Open LDAP config files.
We aren't keeping any secrets,
but we're going to pull that out
into one of the new 12 manuals
for this release of 10 Server.
But you can always go to
the Open LDAP configuration
and see what our schema is.
Mac OS X security APIs are
another excellent reference.
And then there's the Open LDAP project,
the SASL project, the PAM project,
and Kerberos are also related
technologies that are available to you.